It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.
There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a plain face, on the throne of England; there were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face, on the throne of France.
It was the year of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five. Spiritual revelations were conceded to England at that favoured period, as at this.
The vessel that bore them across the Channel had been driven by foul weather into the Goodwins, and was floundering on the breakers in a heavy sea.
A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to every other.
The clocks were striking thirteen as Winston Smith, his chin nuzzled into his breast in an effort to escape the vile wind, slipped quickly through the glass doors of Victory Mansions.
Big Brother is watching you, the caption beneath the picture read. Inside the flat a fruity voice was reading out a list of figures which had something to do with the production of pig-iron.
The Ministry of Truth contained, it was said, three thousand rooms above ground level, and corresponding ramifications below.
He took a swig of Victory Gin, gasped as the oily liquid burned his throat, and began to write in the diary that lay open on the table.
Down with Big Brother, Down with Big Brother, Down with Big Brother, he wrote over and over again, filling half a page.
Call me Ishmael. Some years ago, never mind how long precisely, having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little.
It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth, I quietly take to the ship.
Whenever I find it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses.
There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs -- commerce surrounds it with her surf.
Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme downtown is the Battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by breezes.
Posted by, like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries.
Some leaning against the spiles, some seated upon the pier-heads, some looking over the bulwarks of ships from China.
But these are all landsmen of week days pent up in lath and plaster, tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
How then is this? Are the green fields gone? What do they here? But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for a dive.
Strange! nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice. No.
They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand, miles of them, leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys.
